Okay, let's take a look here at how
we can configure the domain and
range of a scale, in this case color
to customize the way our values
are expressed through one
of our encoding channels.
So in this case, we have some default
colors being applied as the automatic
mappings from the range of values that
we have in our conclusion field, in
our data set, which if you scroll back up
to our little table at the beginning here.
If you scroll through, you'll see that
we essentially have three different
values that we find in the data set,
success, failure, and canceled.
So that is essentially our domain
of values in our data space.
And all we need to do in terms of
overriding the domain here is to make
sure that we know what order plot
is receiving those values and
because they're not numerical
continuous values, they're not
kind of values that have any obvious
order so we just need to choose one.
So if we open the hint box we'll see
that the way we configure the domain and
range is perhaps as one might gather
we specify the properties domain and
range and
we give each one an array of values.
So in this case our domain, let's just put
them in an order that we can deal with.
So I'll have success,
be kind of the ideal state so
that'll come first,
failure will come second, and
then canceled will be the kind of
last one as hopefully an exception.
So, this is how I set up my domain and if
I evaluate here, Shift Enter, I'll notice
that my colors stay the same but kind
of swap around, which already tells me
that plot defaults, we're looking at these
values in a different order in the domain.
So now we know what order
plot is seeing them in, and
now if I override the range property,
I can put in three corresponding
colors to match my domain values.
Again, this is completely up to us.
So let's just use some kind of not
ideal not super accessible defaults and
I would love to hear in the chat what
other palettes folks chose to use.
But let's say success maps to green,
failure maps to red, and
canceled we could use yellow, we could
use gray, why don't we just go ahead and
make it gray because canceled sort
of means it's not a salient so
let's have it fade into the background.
I always forget if it's E-Y or
A-Y let's find out, E-Y seems to work.
So, again if we wanted to change this
we can put whatever colors we want in
there yellow for canceled for example or
I could change all of the these.
So this is completely up to us,
we've now seen for
the color scale particularly but
this extends to all
of the other scales as well how to
override the default domain and range.
So the default input values
the range of these, sorry,
the domain of input values that the plot
is going to actually visualize and
then the output range of values that
plot is going to map those inputs on to.
Questions, comments, concerns?
Okay, pressing on.
In our next exercise we're going
to add a new feature from our data
set into our plot.
So so far we've got the status,
the kind of the conclusion status
visualized with color, but
we have more information in the data.
So if we scroll back up to our dataset,
we see we also have a minutes column here,
which essentially tells us
how many minutes it took for
this test to conclude or
to finish running.
And so we're gonna visualize that
now using a different channel
because we've already got on
the Fill channel we've already got
our conclusion feature visualized.
So that means we're going to need to
pick a different channel to visualize
a different property of the data.
In this case,
we're gonna use the Fill opacity channel
to visualize that duration in minutes.
Right now our plot answers
the question did each test pass or
what was the conclusion status for
each test?
Now we're gonna make it
answer both that question and
the question how long
did it take to conclude?
So that is our next exercise and
after we answer the question how
long did each test take in minutes,
we're also going to notice that some
of the tests have a duration of zero.
So that means that if our opacity
channel is mapped to zero and
we have an opacity of zero,
it means it doesn't show up at all.
We won't be able to see the status,
the conclusion failure,
success, cancellation status.
So, in order to get around that
problem as Part B of this exercise,
we're going to also add a new channel
to color the outline of each
cell based on the conclusion.
So, essentially we're gonna duplicate our
visualization using the Fill channel,
into the channel that corresponds
to the outline of each cell,
which you can scroll up or check out
the hints to remember the name of.
So this is your task is to
add some more mappings here.